chimpanzees represent a fantastic
challenge for wildlife filmmakers their
skill is to understand the potential of
the animals the relationships that they
have with each other are as interesting
and as exciting as any human drama in
our story we follow a young chimpanzee
born to a very very caring mother and
then something terrible happens to them
Oscar completely on his own in the
forest wouldn't have survived you know
when that happened we thought the film
was over we were about to ring up Disney
and say guys and you haven't got a movie
and then the most unpredictable thing
happened the adoption of our star buy
and Freddy the alpha male never film
before in the wild you have to ask
yourself the question why did he do it
this is pure altruism this is selfless
looking after a young orphan where he
hasn't got an agenda I think more than
anything else is when a chimpanzee looks
out at the screen at you when those eyes
look out from that massive screen you
just there is meaning in those eyes we
as human beings connect with them it
would be utterly useless in my
continuing to try and save chimpanzees
if we're not raising new generations to
be better stewards than we've been
chimpanzees are very endangered the
rainforest habitat that they live in is
increasingly being cut down they're
threatened by the bushmeat trade human
populations are growing they're in
increasingly fragmented patches of
forest for the chimpanzees who are now
threatened with extinction a film like
this can reach out into the hearts of
people they're going to see that we're
not the only beings with personalities
and minds capable of thought
there's a fantastic relationship between
Disney nature and the Jane Goodall
Institute and working together we hope
to preserve natural habitat for
chimpanzees help educate the future
generations and also to look after
orphans and pansies for this particular
movie the give back program see
chimpanzees save chimpanzees is to take
proportion of ticket sales and its gain
to a number of great projects focused on
saving chimpanzees I hope people go to
the theater see these chimpanzees care
about them and engage with them by going
to see the film you are contributing to
helping chimp survival in the wild it's
unbelievable it's really fantastic see
chimpanzee opening week and Disneynature
will make a donation in your honor to
the Jane Goodall Institute to help save
chimpanzees today and tomorrow